High-Yield Dividend Stocks 
Stocks that pay out generous dividends are regarded as a proven way for investors to increase their assets. They are a solid choice for investors of all types, and not just those who are averse to risk.
Hold Rating 
A hold rating indicates investors should neither buy nor sell a particular security since it will most likely stay at a relatively constant price.
Holder of Record 
The registered owner of a security is the holder of record; it can be an individual investor or entity like a financial institution.
Index Funds 
This mutual fund includes securities picked to match or track specific market indices like the S&P 500. They are regarded by some as the most stable form of investing for individuals saving for retirement.
Inflation 
The general decline in a currency’s purchasing power, which is often accompanied by a price increase of goods and services.
Initial Coin Offering (ICO) 
Also called a token offering, this crowdfunding tool allows an investor to provide a cryptocurrency startup with existing traditional currency or cryptocurrency in return for tokens of the new cryptocurrency.
Initial Public Offering (IPO) 
This formal process involves a private company raising capital through the sale of stock to institutional investors on a major stock exchange, for the first time. On rare occasions, individual investors can purchase stock in the IPO.
Insider Trading 
Buying or selling a security based on information that is not available to the public. Participants in insider trading are often leveraging information that should be or will soon be public. As a result, insider trading is regarded as an illegal activity.
Institutional Investors 
These large companies or firms buy and sell securities along the lines of their investment strategy, along with facilitating trades for members and shareholders.
Intrinsic Value 
This stat helps determine whether a particular security is overvalued or undervalued.
Inverted Yield Curve 
This curve indicates market conditions in which short-term debt instruments (like 2-year bonds) have a higher yield than long-term debt instruments (like a 10-year bond). Both the short-term and long-term instruments of debt must be of the same quality, for example, U.S. Treasury Bonds.