Market Perform 
This rating suggests a neutral outlook on a stock’s projected performance when compared to benchmark indexes; it’s also referred to as a hold rating.
Market Timing 
A trading strategy that focuses on changing the ratio of different assets within a portfolio to take advantage of changing prices within each asset class.
Momentum Indicators
These technical indicators help traders confirm the veracity of a buy or sell rating.
Momentum Investing
This strategy involves identifying charted patterns to find stocks that exhibit specific trends.
Monthly Dividend Stocks
These securities are issued by companies that pay dividends every month, which some investors rely on as a regular source of income.
Most Active Stocks 
Also called a road map for day traders, this list of the most active stocks is a useful index for those investors poised to buy and sell for profit.
Moving Average (MA) 
This lagging indicator, also called a moving average or rolling average, gives investors a projected view of how a security is trending, without committing to particular prices.
Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD) 
This oscillating analysis tool indicates the momentum of a particular security and provides a visual depiction of trends with buying and selling.
Municipal Bonds 
Also known as "munis," these government-issued certificates of debt fund daily operating expenses or larger public works projects.
Mutual Funds 
A mutual fund is a company that pools money from multiple investors and uses a proprietary investing strategy to place that capital into select securities. Many mutual funds are comprised of stocks in a particular index or industry, while others offer more diversification. Mutual funds are a safer way for the average retail investor to place money in stocks while mitigating risk.
NASDAQ 
This American Stock exchange is the second-largest marketplace in the world in terms of market cap.
Net Asset Value 
This value is found by subtracting the liabilities of a mutual fund from the market value of its shares, and then dividing that number by the number of shares.
Net Income 
A company’s earnings after expenses, this stat indicates whether or not a company is making money and retaining profit.
Net Margin 
Also known as profit margin, this is the amount of remaining revenue after a specific period of time.