Dogs of the Dow 
This dividend-focused investing strategy focuses on beating the DJIA, or Dow Jones Industrial Average annually by loading a portfolio up with a higher proportion of high-yield dividend stocks.
Dollar Cost Averaging 
This investment strategy has investors buying fixed dollar amounts of a security at regular intervals, no matter the individual price of each security. Stock prices may rise and fall over the years, but investors who have practice this strategy will build a serious portfolio of stocks as the decades go by. Some investors such as Warren Buffet are strong promoters of this strategy.
Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) 
One of the most-watched indices worldwide, these 30 blue chip stocks are tracked as an indicator of the market’s overall health.
Earnings Per Share 
EPS is a metric that divides company profit by the number of outstanding common shares to show how much earning power each individual share carries.
Earnings Reports 
These reports are part and parcel of the legal obligation that publicly held companies have to reveal an accurate picture of their financial performance.
Economic Bubble 
When an asset class rises in value based on investor sentiment rather than actual stat-driven analysis.
Economic Reports 
These reports offer a variety of data about different sectors of the economy, both domestic and global; they are published regularly by several departments in the Federal Government.
Elliott Wave Theory 
This theory, developed by Ralph Nelson Elliott in the 1930s, proposes that crowd psychology shifts between optimism and pessimism, in turn affecting market prices in a natural pattern.
Equal Weight Rating 
This analyst rating indicates the performance of a particular security will match the average return of other stocks covered by the analyst.
Equity Income 
Income generated from stock dividends, which are cash earnings paid out to shareholders by the company.
Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs) 
These pooled investment products are comprised of securities in a specific type of index or industry. In this way, an ETF is like a cross between owning individual stocks and participating in a mutual fund.