G-20 
This group of 20 finance ministers and central bank governors from 19 countries is the primary global economic council. The 20th member of the G-20 is the European Union. The G-20 includes the G-7, which a group of the world’s most developed economies, including the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, and Canada.
Gap Down Stocks
These stocks open at a significantly lower price level, due to after-hours trading that has negatively impacted the stock.
Gap Up Stocks 
These stocks open at a significantly higher price level, due to after-hours trading that has positively impacted the stock.
Golden Cross 
This technical indicator is formed on a candlestick chart when a short-term moving average and long-term moving average cross paths.
Google Finance 
This search tab on Google.com gives investors the ability to track securities and filter stocks by specific requirements.
Google Finance Portfolio 
This tool allows investors to create a watchlist to gauge and chart the daily performance of their current holdings.
Green Investing 
Investing in stocks, bonds, or mutual funds that focus on companies and/or projects dedicated to conserving natural resources, producing natural energy, and clean air and water is called Green Investing.
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) 
This measurement indicates the monetary value of all final services and goods produced by a specific country within a specific time frame.
Growth and Income Funds 
This mutual fund or ETF attempts to grow in value through capital appreciation and provide income through dividends.
Growth Stocks 
These are stocks issued by companies that increase in value, rather than producing higher dividends. Their rising prices optimally outperform the general trend of the greater market.
Hedge Funds 
This alternative to traditional investing uses a pool of funds from contributing investors who meet particular criteria. A hedge fund has a goal to create an absolute guaranteed return for its investors. This is done through a complex and diverse market strategy. Hedge funds generally avoid regulation because they are not publicly accessible; only select and invited investors can participate.