Depreciation 
This accounting practice allows a company to record a portion of an asset’s cost over its lifespan as an operating expense.
Derivative 
A contract between two parties, the value of which is determined by underlying securities such as stocks, bonds, commodities, or precious metals.
Diluted Earnings Per Share 
This metric helps analysts estimate the quality of earnings per share (EPS) offered by a particular stock.
Discount Rate 
The interest rate the Federal Reserve Banks charge to financial institutions borrowing money from their short-term (usually overnight) discount window. This is the most common definition.
Diversification 
Allocating capital in a way that reduces risk and volatility, by investing in a variety of asset classes is called diversification. For example, investors diversifying their investments might invest their capital in stocks, real estate, commodities, and angel investing. Even within a particular asset class, investors may diversify their holdings, for example purchasing stock in many different types of industries.
Dividend 
An investing strategy that focuses on stocks that pay out higher dividend yields or have dividends that are growing quickly. These stocks are issued by companies who disburse a portion of their profit on a regular basis. A dividend payout for each stock might only be pennies, but if an investor owns many shares of that stock, their earnings can snowball into a massive amount. Some investors derive the majority of their income from dividends.
Dividend Achievers 
A company the common stock of which has posted increasingly larger dividend payouts at least annually over the last 10 years.
Dividend Aristocrat Index 
A group of blue-chip S&P 500 companies with a concrete history of increasing their dividend payouts for 25 consecutive years or more.
Dividend Kings 
Dividend kings are companies who have increased their dividend payout for at least 50 consecutive years.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) 
This plan is a program that allows investors to reinvest the profits disbursed by the securities they own which have paid dividends.
Dividend Yield 
This stat, also called a dividend-price ratio, shows a company’s dividend as a percentage of its stock price.