Leveraged Buyout (LBO) 
This financial transaction involves acquiring a company through borrowed money. The buying party does not have to put their own capital at risk, and instead has leveraged capital from other sources.
LIBOR 
The standard rate international banks would most likely charge one another for inter-bank lending is referred to as The London Interbank Offered Rate. This rate estimation is formulated by leading London Banks submitting their estimate of what other banks would charge them. The LIBOR is a benchmark for short-term interest rates around the world, but it will be discontinued in 2021.
Liquidity 
A measurement of how easily an asset such as stocks, cash, real estate, or valuables could be bought or sold without affecting the standard price.
Lock-Up Period Expiration 
Also known as a lock-up agreement, investors are restricted from buying or redeeming shares for a period of time usually numbering 90-180 days.
Management Fee
Compensation for an investment manager to manage the fund for the trader.
Margin 
Collateral supplied by a trader to their broker in order to trade securities, futures, and currencies.
Marijuana Stocks 
Probably one of the most active and exciting investment areas right now is the Marijuana industry—not only in regard to its cultivation, but all its ancillary businesses such as consumer products and medical research. This area poses opportunities for huge gains, but investors searching for Marijuana Stocks should look for the same fundamental indicators of growth, quality, location, and management that they would look for in any other company.
Market Capitalization 
The value of outstanding shares from an issuing company, used by investors to rank company sizes, in distinction to sales or total assets.
Market Indexes 
A theoretical portfolio of investments that represents a specific market segment.
Market Perform 
This rating suggests a neutral outlook on a stock’s projected performance when compared to benchmark indexes; it’s also referred to as a hold rating.
Market Timing 
A trading strategy that focuses on changing the ratio of different assets within a portfolio to take advantage of changing prices within each asset class.