Cost of Capital 
This amount of money is what’s needed to make capital budgeting worthwhile.
Cost of Debt
The effective interest rate, expressed as a percentage, that a company will pay on all of its outstanding debts
Cost of Equity 
The return a business can expect from received equity financing. For individual investors, this is the expected return in exchange for their investment through buying shares.
Cost of Goods Sold (COGS) 
Also referred to as the cost of sales, this business stat shows how much cost is associated with each sale the business makes.
Coverage Ratio 
A series of ratios used by investors to assess the ability of a company to meet their financial obligations.
Cryptocurrencies 
A digital currency formed from a series of coded transactions, the record of which is kept on a digital ledger called blockchain. The first digital currency was Bitcoin, which has since skyrocketed in price even as others such as Ethereum have come on the scene. Though cryptocurrency seems strange to most consumers, it’s becoming increasingly accepted as payment, even among online retailers.
Current Ratio 
Also called the working capital ratio, this metric allows investors to gauge a company’s liquidity.
Day Trading 
Buying and selling securities within a single day, even within several hours or minutes. Investors with either a serious understanding of the market or a high-risk tolerance track the market all day, buying low and selling high. Some investors use these profits as their primary source of income, though many amateurs who have not put in the requisite research have failed.
Dead Cat Bounce 
This type of event occurs as part of a long-lasting downtrend in price. When the price falls significantly from a previous high, it may appear to bounce back or suggest a reversal of the downtrend.
Death Cross 
A technical chart pattern indicating that a particular security could be exposed to major selling pressure.
Debt-To-Equity Ratio 
This metric shows how much debt a company has, in relation to the value of their stock.