Quantitative Easing 
A program in which the central bank of a given nations leverages a supply of newly minted currency to purchase assets like government bonds from banks, pension funds, and insurance companies.
Quick Ratio 
Also known as the acid-test ratio, this measure of liquidity shows how quickly a company could extinguish its current liabilities if it chose to do so.
Quiet Period 
The waiting period that begins once the company and underwriters agree to proceed with an initial public offering (IPO).
Quiet Period Expirations 
The date on which the SEC (Securities & Exchange Commission) approves a company’s registration for an IPO and the end of the quiet period or waiting period.
Range Trading 
A strategy based on technical analysis of price movement between support and resistance.
Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) ETF 
A company that owns income-producing real estate and sells shares of ownership to investors, similar to a stock. REITs create an opportunity for retail investors to get involved in real estate when the costs of doing so on their own might be prohibitive.
Recession 
A downturn in economic activity through multiple consecutive quarters of increasing decline. Recessions are also often associated with a drop in spending, spurring economic reforms to stimulate the economy. However, some investors view low stock prices during a recession as a prime motivator for maximizing the value of their dollar and purchasing more shares.
Relative Strength Index 
This momentum oscillator measures price by speed and change, moving between 0 and 100.
Resistance Level 
The price point at which an assets price begins to slow, or even reverses with an increase in transaction volume.
Retained Earnings 
A company's profit after paying out dividends to shareholders. This is to the company what disposable income is to a private individual.
Return On Assets 
This particular profitability measure helps investors gauge their return on investment as it relates to their assets.